docs/index.rst, before:

nlmod
=====

nlmod is a Python package to build, run and visualize MODFLOW 6 groundwater models in the
Netherlands. The main focus is on building models in the Netherlands using publicly
available datasets, though lots of functionality could be applied to groundwater models
elsewhere.

.. image:: _static/logo_10000_2.png
  :width: 300
  :align: center
  :alt: The logo of nlmod

nlmod relies heavily on the wonderful features of 
`xarray <https://docs.xarray.dev>`_ and `geopandas <https://geopandas.org>`_ for
storing and manipulating data and `flopy <https://flopy.readthedocs.io>`_ is used for
building and running groundwater models.

We thank the following institutions for their contributions to the development of nlmod:

.. image:: _static/logo_pwn.svg
  :width: 200
  :alt: The logo of PWN

.. image:: _static/logo_hhnk.svg
  :width: 200
  :alt: The logo of Hoogheemraadschap Hollands Noorderkwartier

.. image:: _static/logo_waternet.png
  :width: 200
  :alt: The logo of Waternet

.. image:: _static/logo_vitens.jpg
  :width: 200
  :alt: The logo of Vitens

.. image:: _static/logo_evides.png
  :width: 200
  :alt: The logo of Evides

.. image:: _static/logo_brabant_water.svg
  :width: 200
  :alt: The logo of Brabant Water

Please note that the documentation for nlmod is still a work in progress, so
bear with us if certain aspects are incomplete.

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2
   :caption: Contents:

   Getting started <getting_started>
   Examples <examples>
   API-docs <modules>


Indices and tables
==================

* :ref:`genindex`

Commit message:

Restructure documentation and add new sections
Documentation was reorganized into new sections: data sources, utilities, workflows, and advanced stress packages. Example notebooks were moved to corresponding subfolders, and new .rst files were added for each section. A new notebook on meteorological data was added. The index.rst was updated to reflect the new structure. Metadata in several notebooks was cleaned up, and a script to clear notebook outputs was introduced.

docs/index.rst, after:

nlmod
=====

nlmod is a Python package to build, run and visualize MODFLOW 6 groundwater models in the
Netherlands. The main focus is on building models in the Netherlands using publicly
available datasets, though lots of functionality could be applied to groundwater models
elsewhere.

.. image:: _static/logo_10000_2.png
  :width: 300
  :align: center
  :alt: The logo of nlmod

nlmod relies on the wonderful features of 
`xarray <https://docs.xarray.dev>`_ and `geopandas <https://geopandas.org>`_ for
storing and manipulating data and `flopy <https://flopy.readthedocs.io>`_ is used for
building and running groundwater models.

We thank the following institutions for their contributions to the development of nlmod:

.. image:: _static/logo_pwn.svg
  :width: 200
  :alt: The logo of PWN

.. image:: _static/logo_hhnk.svg
  :width: 200
  :alt: The logo of Hoogheemraadschap Hollands Noorderkwartier

.. image:: _static/logo_waternet.png
  :width: 200
  :alt: The logo of Waternet

.. image:: _static/logo_vitens.jpg
  :width: 200
  :alt: The logo of Vitens

.. image:: _static/logo_evides.png
  :width: 200
  :alt: The logo of Evides

.. image:: _static/logo_brabant_water.svg
  :width: 200
  :alt: The logo of Brabant Water


.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2
   :caption: Contents:

   Getting started <getting_started>
   Data Sources <data_sources>
   Examples <examples>
   Utilities <utilities>
   Workflows <workflows>
   Advanced stress packages <advanced_stress_packages>
   API-docs <modules>


Indices and tables
==================

* :ref:`genindex`
